Remember the calm before the storm,
The still and fragile air threatening to crack electric,
My heart, heavy, pressed hard into the earth by gravity.
Looking back through the pixilated glass
Into the black and white crackle of an old fashioned picture:
My eyes locked unseeing on the stars
That watched over my life unknown, but the stars,
Behind the clouded broil of the storm,
Were flung there like a spin-art picture,
Not as they were to my mind: electric
Pinholes in the Lite-Brite sky. Hard bulbed glass,
Tiny and without their own gravity,
And I was compacting under my own gravity
Like the steady, inevitable death of stars,
My only aspiration to supernova under glass,
To explode my life in a snow-globe storm.
Flurry-torn buildings under stale electric
Light, towering over tiny people I could never picture
In life. I spent some years without even one picture
In mind. Each frame that I placed there. Gravity
Would drain, tugging the color from the bottom, electric
Light melting into mottled paint, dribbling, not flung. I would curse my stars
Gather the violence within me and storm
From wherever to create unforgettable records. Glass
From windows foolish enough to stand between fists and in, glass
I laughed at for thinking it could hurt me, replaced fading pictures
With pointless scars, but all this was before the storm,
Before the pieces of me aligned in your gravity
Like rings to a planet or the planets' swing around the stars,
I orbit you. You are an electric
Spill across the synapses. Each moment I breathe now is electric
With the thought of you. No path behind the glass
Of my eyes can be traced now without also tracing the path of the stars,
Which is really your path, and to picture
A life without you is to imagine a galaxy without gravity,
Stars and planets torn from their perfect arcs in a storm
Of inertial forces. So patiently I wait, Lord, in this storm of stars
for the radiant hope you've lit in my mind, the electric picture
Of possibility, resolving in the perfect gravity from above your sea of glass.
