Stars wink down at the house
and the house is sleeping.
They're smiling down at the house,
brushing the stones blue.
The stones in the yard are sleeping
and don't stir when padded feet
rest on their smooth sides.
The padded feet are lonely
and soundless as a voice
singing out to an empty theater.
The feet pad to the corner of the house,
pause and disappear.

The sun turns its toothy, yellow smile on the house
and shudder-eyelids open.
By noon the stones are steaming
under the drumbeat plops
from a dirty yellow sprinkler.
The sprinkler is too close to the house
and drums on the roof every few seconds
calling to the boy and girl inside.
Soon the boy and girl cannot resist
and shriek across the stones to dance
to the drumbeat of artificial raindrops.
When the bare feet rest on the stones smooth sides
they burn and so the feet never rest but leap,
soles itching with heat,
from stone to stone.

The boy grows up in a day and leaves the house.
Behind the boy's heavy booted tread
puffs of dust quarrel and part ways
above the stones.  In the house the mother
chases away the dust that furs the surfaces
in the boy's bedroom. For old time's sake
the mother writes "dust me" with a finger
on the boy's dresser and notices how much dust
one stirs just by living and sees how much dust
there really is in the house the same way coal soot
on a black face makes you see that face is really brown.
The mother's fingers smooth the already smooth bed
and think they should not have tisk-tisked and wagged
at the boy so much.  The furniture has already
grown a five o clock shadow of mouse hair
but the mother's fingers are sleeping between her face
and the boy's pillow.

The mother is sleeptalking into her palm.
She is talking some in English and some
in gibberish or maybe some in tongues.
The girl watches and feels happy for no real reason.
She thinks the mother's fractured talking
is even prettier than regular talk.
The girl sees the down of dust on the furniture
but feels happy.  And when the girl shrieks
across the yard, the bare feet rest on the stones
smooth sides and burn a little and the feet
are lonely, but the coarse mist from the sprinkler
collects along the air currents and spells out gibberish
words and the girl feels happy.

Tonight storm clouds cross their arms
down at the house.  Something is different
tonight; something like:
the things are their shadows and the rare
shadows thrown out by the candle light
are the shadows of shadows.
The clouds frown down at the house
and scold the rare wink of stars
with the heavy stifle of their grey
muscled arms.

In the city the boy prays over his last match
as the flame teases away from the wick
up the balsa wood and licks the tips of his fingers.
The fingers itch with heat and almost
drop the match but don't and the flame
wriggles into life above the candle.
The boy's fingers itch as they thaw
next to the flame, which shivers and wiggles
to stay warm.  The boy wishes he could afford heat
and thinks he understands why people
light candles in prayer.

The mother is sleeptalking in her room
and her strange words are apples of steam
rising in the frozen air.  Outside the house
the wind sucking across the stones
is the stones muttering to themselves about
the cold.  The girl dreams that her brother
cups a butterfly made all of ice in his hands.
He bends down to kiss its wings
but the butterfly stings his lips and turns them blue.
As the girl dreams she murmurs in her own
sleepy language, little cherries of fog
rising from her mouth.  In the morning
the sun turns its one good eye on the house
and the spring is a revolution.
Flowers throw the dirt from their shoulders,
April storms in and plants her flag in the sand,
and the stones finally talk themselves to sleep
in the warm, yellow light.

In the day the sun turns its white-hot
bleached enamel smile on the house.
April leaves like an indifferent whore
zipping up her boots and asking for what
she's owed.  The air looks like old glass
rippled above the stones and the sand
is a glass sea between the stones,
but the flowers are not glass and wilt.
The flowers are not enough though
and the boy returns to the house
wearing black.  His bedroom is filled with dust
so thick that his boots brand the floor as he walks
and the girl drips constellations
as she crosses the room to put her cheek
on the boy's shoulder.  Lying on the stones
the sprinkler is a wounded bumble-bee,
fanning the hot air with its one transparent wing.
To the boy the stones are dirty buildings
and the enormous silence of the desert is
the chatter and honking pavement of the city.
He cannot see the house or the yard, but sees
only his frozen room with its dirty windows
and hears only the rasping breath of noise,
rushing in his ears.

The boy sits on the stones and the world is small.
The sky is just a blue rag stretched out over head
and the wilting purple flowers are bruises
on the desert's sandy skin.  He takes comfort
in the glowing eyes of bedroom windows
and the puckered mouth of the front door.
He thinks that one day he will look
at the mashes of fur by the side of the road
and see next year's wildflowers growing in richer soil.

For now he chases away the dust that
furs all the surfaces in his mother's bedroom
and for old time's sake
lights a candle on her dresser.

Stars wink down at the house
and the house is sleeping.
They're smiling down at the house,

brushing the stones blue.
